Abstract
One of the most essential factors in the current study is effectively harvesting the Maximum Power Extraction (MPE) from the Photovoltaic (PV) panel. The primary difficulties in extracting solar power is occurrence of partial shading which causes the panel to significantly increases power loss. These will mainly occur due to when partially shaded solar PV array kept under certain critical conditions for obtaining maximum output power. Many researcher have suggested by connecting bypass diodes in anti-parallel to the PV modules hotspots in the modules can be avoided. Out of all techniques, the proposed Bayesian Fusion Technique (BFT) is a hybrid optimization algorithm that combines the Grey Wolf Optimization (GWO) and Flower Pollination Algorithm (FPA) techniques to optimize the performance of solar panels in photovoltaic (PV) systems. The combination of GWO and FPA forms an ideal combination that is beneficial for optimizing the performance of PV systems is determined in this work. In this study real 6*6 PV array string and irregular PV array configuration such as central and parallel-series PV string combination of various partial shading pattern is compared and found to be effective for reducing the hotspots problems. The performance of these configuration under different shading patterns have been compared and analyzed with the different parameters like output power, conversion efficiency and tracking efficiency. This article state about the influence of partial darkening and the crucial point that reduce the sensitivity to shading heaviness. For better understanding for reader the MATLAB/Simulink software is used to validate the simulation result with real time data. Overall, this article states the BFT is an efficient and reliable approach to improve the efficiency of PV systems, by combining two optimization techniques like GWO and FPA hybrid algorithm. This article gives clear insight to the researchers for choosing BFT-GWO algorithm in order to decrease the cost and wastage of energy for achieving better solar panel performance.
