Abstract
Adsorption is an effective and promising approach for removing pollutants from wastewater. Too many hazardous colors were unintentionally released into the water, which had a negative impact on the environment. A popular textile dye is malachite green (MG). Thus, in this work, an environmentally acceptable inorganic-organic Ag metal-organic framework-based technique to remove colors from industrial water was developed (Ag-MOF). The sorbent was analyzed in the first section of the work using SEM, XPS, XRD, FT-IR, pHpzc, and BET, which confirmed that the Ag-MOF had the BET surface area, is 676 m2/g, which is a significant surface area. In a later stage, the sorption properties of the dye were examined along with the effects of pH, sorbent dosage, temperature, and ionic strength; the sorption isotherms and uptake kinetics were examined: As opposed to the kinetic profile, Isotherm profiles are well-fit by the Langmuir equation and can be modeled by the pseudo-second order rate equation. The outcomes further demonstrated that MG was mostly adsorbed onto Ag-MOF adsorbent by electrostatic attraction forces, hydrogen bonding, ion exchange, and pore filling. 2.25 mmol/g was found to be the greatest adsorption effectiveness of MG onto Ag-MOF adsorbent. (i.e. 809.71 mg/g). Adsorbent dosage, solution pH, temperature, and time were the four adsorption process parameters that were tuned using Box-Behnken design (BBD) in response surface methodology (RSM). The (ΔH°), (ΔS°), and (ΔG°) MG dye was endothermically and spontaneously extracted using Ag-MOF as an adsorbent, according to the specifications. Up to five cycles of adsorption-desorption, the synthesised Ag-MOF adsorbent demonstrates exceptional render ability and cyclability. The produced adsorbent's efficacy for purifying wastewater samples at a laboratory scale was assessed as a proof of concept. Study the mechanism of interaction between the Ag-MOF and MG as it could be take place through π-π interaction, pore filling, H-Bonding or electrostatic interaction. The mesoporous Ag-MOF adsorbent offered a simple and effective way to handle water filtering and industrial wastewater management. According to our research, this work is the first to explain how to remove MG dye from wastewater samples using Ag-MOF adsorbents.
